ITEM 1. Business.

Ford Motor Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1919. We acquired the business of a Michigan company, also known as Ford Motor Company, which had been incorporated in 1903 to produce and sell automobiles designed and engineered by Henry Ford. We are a global company based in Dearborn, Michigan. With about 173,000 employees worldwide, the Company is committed to helping build a better world, where every person is free to move and pursue their dreams. The Company’s Ford+ plan for growth and value creation combines existing strengths, new capabilities, and always-on relationships with customers to enrich experiences for customers and deepen their loyalty. Ford develops and delivers innovative, must-have Ford trucks, sport utility vehicles, commercial vans and cars, and Lincoln luxury vehicles, along with connected services. With our change in segments effective January 1, 2023, the Company does that through three customer-centered business segments: Ford Blue, engineering iconic gas-powered and hybrid vehicles; Ford Model e, inventing breakthrough electric vehicles (“EVs”) along with embedded software that defines always-on digital experiences for all customers; and Ford Pro, helping commercial customers transform and expand their businesses with vehicles and services tailored to their needs. Additionally, the Company is pursuing mobility solutions through Ford Next (previously Mobility) and provides financial services through Ford Motor Credit Company LLC (“Ford Credit”).

In addition to the information about Ford and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (“2022 Form 10-K Report” or “Report”), extensive information about our Company can be found at http://corporate.ford.com, including information about our management team, brands, products, services, and corporate governance principles.

The corporate governance information on our website includes our Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Personnel, Code of Ethics for the Board of Directors, Code of Corporate Conduct for all employees, and the Charters for each of the Committees of our Board of Directors.  In addition, any amendments to our Code of Ethics or waivers granted to our directors and executive officers will be posted on our corporate website.  All of these documents may be accessed by going to our corporate website, or may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Shareholder Relations Department, Ford Motor Company, One American Road, P.O. Box 1899, Dearborn, Michigan 48126-1899.

Our recent periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge at http://shareholder.ford.com. This includes recent Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, and our Section 16 filings.  We post each of these documents on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after it is electronically filed with the SEC. Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Our Integrated Sustainability and Financial Report, which details our performance and progress toward our sustainability and corporate responsibility goals, is available at http://sustainability.ford.com.

The foregoing information regarding our website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC.
1
Item 1. Business (Continued)
OVERVIEW

On January 1, 2023, we implemented a new operating model and reporting structure. With this change, we will analyze the results of our business through the following reportable segments: Ford Blue, Ford Model e, and Ford Pro (combined, replacing the Automotive segment); Ford Next (previously Mobility); and Ford Credit. As a result of the change, beginning with our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31, 2023, we will report our results in these five reportable segments. Company adjusted EBIT will include the financial results of these five reportable segments and Corporate Other, and net income will comprise the financial results of the five reportable segments and Corporate Other, as well as Interest on Debt, Special Items, and Taxes.

Below is a description of our reportable segments and other activities as of December 31, 2022.

AUTOMOTIVE SEGMENT

The Automotive segment primarily includes the sale of Ford and Lincoln vehicles, service parts, and accessories worldwide, together with the associated costs to develop, manufacture, distribute, and service the vehicles, parts, and accessories. This segment includes revenues and costs related to our electrification vehicle programs and enterprise connectivity. The segment includes the following regional business units: North America, South America, Europe, China (including Taiwan), and the International Markets Group.

General

Our vehicle brands are Ford and Lincoln.  In 2022, we sold approximately 4,231,000 vehicles at wholesale throughout the world. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“Item 7”) for a discussion of our calculation of wholesale unit volumes.

Substantially all of our vehicles, parts, and accessories are sold through distributors and dealers (collectively, “dealerships”), the substantial majority of which are independently owned.  At December 31, the approximate number of dealerships worldwide distributing our vehicle brands was as follows:
Brand	2021		2022
Ford	8,900 			8,596 	
Ford-Lincoln (combined)	654 			607 	
Lincoln	401 			408 	
Total	9,955 			9,611 	
 

We do not depend on any single customer or a few customers to the extent that the loss of such customers would have a material adverse effect on our business.

In addition to the products we sell to our dealerships for retail sale, we also sell vehicles to our dealerships for sale to fleet customers, including commercial fleet customers, daily rental car companies, and governments.  We also sell parts and accessories, primarily to our dealerships (which, in turn, sell these products to retail customers) and to authorized parts distributors (which, in turn, primarily sell these products to retailers). We also offer extended service contracts.

The worldwide automotive industry is affected significantly by general economic and political conditions over which we have little control.  Vehicles are durable goods, and consumers and businesses have latitude in determining whether and when to replace an existing vehicle.  The decision whether to purchase a vehicle may be affected significantly by slowing economic growth, geopolitical events, and other factors (including the cost of purchasing and operating cars, trucks, and utility vehicles and the availability and cost of financing and fuel).  As a result, the number of cars, trucks, and utility vehicles sold may vary substantially from year to year.  Further, the automotive industry is a highly competitive business that has a wide and growing variety of product and service offerings from a growing number of manufacturers.
2
Item 1. Business (Continued)
Our wholesale unit volumes vary with the level of total industry demand and our share of that industry demand. Our wholesale unit volumes also are influenced by the level of dealer inventory, and our ability to maintain sufficient production levels to support desired dealer inventory in the event of supplier disruptions or other types of disruptions affecting our production. Our share is influenced by how our products are perceived by customers in comparison to those offered by other manufacturers based on many factors, including price, quality, styling, reliability, safety, fuel efficiency, functionality, and reputation.  Our share also is affected by the timing and frequency of new model introductions.  Our ability to satisfy changing consumer and business preferences with respect to type or size of vehicle, as well as design and performance characteristics, affects our sales and earnings significantly.

As with other manufacturers, the profitability of our business is affected by many factors, including:

•Wholesale unit volumes
•Margin of profit on each vehicle sold - which, in turn, is affected by many factors, such as:
◦Market factors - volume and mix of vehicles and options sold, and net pricing (reflecting, among other factors, incentive programs)
◦Costs of components and raw materials necessary for production of vehicles
◦Costs for customer warranty claims and additional service actions
◦Costs for safety, emissions, and fuel economy technology and equipment
•A high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, so that small changes in wholesale unit volumes can significantly affect overall profitability

Although recent supply disruptions have resulted in near-term upward pressure on new vehicle prices, our industry has historically had a very competitive pricing environment, driven in part by excess capacity. For the past several decades, manufacturers typically have offered price discounts and other marketing incentives to provide value for customers and maintain market share and production levels, and we are beginning to see indications that some of these actions will resume in 2023 as industry production and inventories improve.  The decline in value of foreign currencies in the past has also contributed significantly to competitive pressures in many of our markets. 

Competitive Position.  The worldwide automotive industry consists of many producers, with no single dominant producer. Certain manufacturers, however, account for the major percentage of total sales within particular countries, especially their countries of origin.  

Seasonality.  We manage our vehicle production schedule based on a number of factors, including retail sales (i.e., units sold by our dealerships to their customers at retail) and dealer stock levels (i.e., the number of units held in inventory by our dealerships for sale to their customers). Historically, we have experienced some seasonal fluctuation in the business, with production in many markets tending to be higher in the first half of the year to meet demand in the spring and summer (typically the strongest sales months of the year). In recent years, due to COVID-19, the semiconductor shortage, and other supply constraints, production has been higher in the second half of the year.

Backlog Orders.  During the past year, gross stock levels at dealers were lower than normal due largely to the semiconductor shortage and other supply constraints, and the amount of time required to fill orders for certain vehicles increased.

Raw Materials.  We purchase a wide variety of raw materials from numerous suppliers around the world for use in the production of, and development of technologies in, our vehicles.  These materials include base metals (e.g., steel and aluminum), precious metals (e.g., palladium), energy (e.g., natural gas), and plastics/resins (e.g., polypropylene).  As we transition to a greater mix of electric vehicles, we expect to increase our reliance on lithium, cobalt, nickel, graphite, and manganese, among other materials, for batteries. We expect to have adequate supplies or sources of availability of raw materials necessary to meet our needs; however, there always are risks and uncertainties with respect to the supply of raw materials that could impact availability in sufficient quantities and at cost effective prices to meet our needs.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with a shortage of components or raw materials, supplier disruptions, and inflationary pressures, the “Key Trends and Economic Factors Affecting Ford and the Automotive Industry” section of Item 7 for a discussion of supplier disruptions caused by a shortage of key components, as well as commodity and energy price changes, and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” (“Item 7A”) for a discussion of commodity price risks.


3
Item 1. Business (Continued)
Intellectual Property.  We own or hold licenses to use numerous patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and trademarks on a global basis.  We expect to continue building this portfolio as we actively pursue innovation in every part of our business.  We also own numerous trademarks and service marks that contribute to the identity and recognition of our Company and its products and services globally.  While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of each of our businesses, we do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any particular intellectual property right or termination of any particular intellectual property agreement.

Warranty Coverage, Field Service Actions, and Customer Satisfaction Actions.  We provide warranties on vehicles we sell.  Warranties are offered for specific periods of time and/or mileage, and vary depending upon the type of product and the geographic location of its sale.  Pursuant to these warranties, we will repair, replace, or adjust parts on a vehicle that are defective in factory-supplied materials or workmanship during the specified warranty period.  In addition to the costs associated with this warranty coverage provided on our vehicles, we also incur costs as a result of field service actions (i.e., safety recalls, emission recalls, and other product campaigns), and for customer satisfaction actions.

For additional information regarding warranty and related costs, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 and Note 25 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.

FORD CREDIT SEGMENT

The Ford Credit segment is comprised of the Ford Credit business on a consolidated basis, which is primarily vehicle-related financing and leasing activities.

Ford Credit offers a wide variety of automotive financing products to and through automotive dealers throughout the world.  The predominant share of Ford Credit’s business consists of financing our vehicles and supporting our dealers.  Ford Credit earns its revenue primarily from payments made under retail installment sale and finance lease (retail financing) and operating lease contracts that it originates and purchases; interest rate supplements and other support payments from us and our affiliates; and payments made under dealer financing programs.

As a result of these financing activities, Ford Credit has a large portfolio of finance receivables and operating leases which it classifies into two portfolios —“consumer” and “non-consumer.”  Finance receivables and operating leases in the consumer portfolio include products offered to individuals and businesses that finance the acquisition of our vehicles from dealers for personal and commercial use.  Retail financing includes retail installment sale contracts for new and used vehicles and finance leases (comprised of sales-type and direct financing leases) for new vehicles to retail and commercial customers, including leasing companies, government entities, daily rental companies, and fleet customers. Finance receivables in the non-consumer portfolio include products offered to automotive dealers. Ford Credit makes wholesale loans to dealers to finance the purchase of vehicle inventory, also known as floorplan financing, as well as loans to dealers to finance working capital and improvements to dealership facilities, finance the purchase of dealership real estate, and finance other dealer vehicle programs.  Ford Credit also purchases receivables generated by us and our affiliates, primarily related to the sale of parts and accessories to dealers and certain used vehicles from daily rental fleet companies. Ford Credit also provides financing to us for vehicles that we lease to our employees.

The majority of Ford Credit’s business is in the United States and Canada. Outside of the United States, Europe is Ford Credit’s largest operation. Ford Credit’s European operations are managed primarily through its United Kingdom-based subsidiary, FCE Bank plc (“FCE”). Within Europe, Ford Credit’s largest markets are the United Kingdom and Germany.

See Item 7 and Notes 10 and 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a detailed discussion of Ford Credit’s receivables, credit losses, allowance for credit losses, loss-to-receivables ratios, funding sources, and funding strategies. See Item 7A for a discussion of how Ford Credit manages its financial market risks.

We routinely sponsor special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers’ customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit.  In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer’s customer. These programs increase Ford Credit’s financing volume and share.  See Note 2 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for information about our accounting for these programs.

We have a Third Amended and Restated Relationship Agreement with Ford Credit, pursuant to which, if Ford Credit’s financial statement leverage for a calendar quarter were to be higher than 12.5:1 (as reported in its most recent periodic report), Ford Credit could require us to make or cause to be made a capital contribution to it in an amount sufficient to have caused such financial statement leverage to have been 12.5:1.  No capital contributions have been made pursuant to this agreement.  In a separate agreement with FCE, Ford Credit has agreed to maintain FCE’s net worth in excess of $500 million. No payments have been made pursuant to that agreement.

Ford Credit files periodic reports with the SEC that contain additional information regarding Ford Credit. The reports are available through Ford Credit’s website located at www.fordcredit.com/investor-center and can also be found on the SEC’s website located at www.sec.gov.

The foregoing information regarding Ford Credit’s website and its content is for convenience only and not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Report nor filed with the SEC.

CORPORATE OTHER

Corporate Other primarily includes corporate governance expenses, interest income (excluding interest earned on our extended service contract portfolio that is included in our Automotive segment) and gains and losses from our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities (excluding gains and losses on investments in equity securities), and foreign exchange derivatives gains and losses associated with intercompany lending. Corporate governance expenses are primarily administrative, delivering benefit on behalf of the global enterprise, that are not allocated to operating segments. These include expenses related to setting and directing global policy, providing oversight and stewardship, and promoting the Company’s interests.

Effective January 1, 2023, past service pension and other postretirement employee benefits (“OPEB”) income/expense and related assets, previously reported in the Automotive segment, were realigned to Corporate Other.

INTEREST ON DEBT

Interest on Debt consists of interest expense on Company debt excluding Ford Credit.

GOVERNMENTAL STANDARDS

Many governmental standards and regulations relating to safety, fuel economy, emissions control, noise control, vehicle recycling, substances of concern, vehicle damage, and theft prevention are applicable to new motor vehicles, engines, and equipment. In addition, manufacturing and other automotive assembly facilities are subject to stringent standards regulating air emissions, water discharges, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances. The most significant of the standards and regulations affecting us are discussed below:

Vehicle Emissions Control

U.S. Requirements - Federal and California Tailpipe Emission Standards. Both the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) have established motor vehicle tailpipe and evaporative emissions standards that become increasingly stringent over time. Seventeen states have adopted California’s light-duty standards, four states have adopted California’s heavy-duty standards, and other states are expected to join. Both federal and California regulations also require motor vehicles to be equipped with on-board diagnostic (“OBD”) systems that monitor emission-related systems and components. In addition, light- and medium-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines must be certified by EPA prior to sale in the United States and by CARB prior to sale in California and the relevant states. Canada accepts EPA certification. Compliance with emissions standards, OBD requirements, and related regulations can be challenging and can drive increased product development costs, warranty costs, and vehicle recalls.

CARB has adopted new emissions regulations applicable to model year 2024 heavy-duty engines, as well as extended heavy-duty warranty requirements beginning with the 2022 model year, and EPA has proposed more stringent heavy-duty standards beginning with the 2027 model year. These rules include more stringent emissions standards, as well as new requirements affecting durability testing, warranty, and OBD. CARB has also adopted new light-duty emissions standards applicable to 2026 model year vehicles, including a more stringent emissions standard and other new emissions requirements. These new rules are expected to impose increased challenges and costs on the development of light-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines.

Compliance with automobile emissions standards depends in part on the widespread availability of high-quality and consistent automotive fuels that the vehicles were designed to use. Legislative, regulatory, and judicial developments related to fuel quality at both the national and state levels could affect vehicle manufacturers’ warranty costs as well as their ability to comply with vehicle emissions standards.

Item 1. Business (Continued)
The California vehicle emissions program also includes requirements for manufacturers to produce and deliver for sale zero-emission vehicles (“ZEVs”). California’s light-duty vehicle ZEV regulation, which uses a system based on credits that can be banked and carried forward, mandates annual increases in the production and sale of battery-electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid vehicles. For 2025 model year, this regulation will require approximately 22% of a manufacturer’s California light-duty vehicle sales volume be ZEVs. In August 2022, California approved a sweeping revision to the ZEV regulation. Beginning with the 2026 model year, the revised ZEV rule mandates a 35% ZEV sales requirement, rising to 100% by 2035. The revised regulation also imposes significant restrictions on credit usage, and new requirements for EV battery durability. California has also instituted ZEV regulations governing medium- and heavy-duty vehicles, beginning with the 2024 model year. These stringent ZEV requirements covering light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles could entail significant costs and compliance challenges, and include complex warranty and recall requirements. Compliance with ZEV rules depends on market conditions (including the pace of adoption of EVs), technology readiness, and battery raw material availability as well as the availability of adequate infrastructure to support vehicle charging.

European Requirements. European Union (“EU”) and U.K. regulations, directives, and related legislation limit the amount of regulated pollutants that may be emitted by new motor vehicles and engines sold in the EU and the United Kingdom. Regulatory stringency has increased significantly with the application of Stage VI emission standards (first introduced in 2014) and the implementation of a laboratory test cycle for CO2 and emissions and the introduction of on-road emission testing using portable emission analyzers (Real Driving Emission or “RDE”). These on-road emission tests are in addition to the laboratory-based tests (first introduced in 2017). The divergence between the regulatory limit that is tested in laboratory conditions and the allowed values measured in RDE tests will ultimately be reduced to zero as the regulatory demands increase. In addition, new requirements for tailpipe and non-tailpipe emissions will be included in the upcoming Euro 7 regulation, and the lead-time for engineering and type approval may potentially be too short. The costs associated with complying with all of these requirements are significant, and following the EU Commission’s indication of its intent to accelerate emissions rules in its road map publication “EU Green Deal” as well as the EU sustainable mobility action plan, these challenges will continue in European markets, including the United Kingdom. In addition, the Whole Vehicle Type Approval (“WVTA”) regulation has been updated to increase the stringency of in-market surveillance. Moreover, following the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union, we may be subject to diverging requirements in our European markets, which could increase vehicle complexity and duties.

There is an increasing trend of city access restrictions for internal combustion engine powered vehicles. The access rules being introduced are developed by individual cities based on their specific concerns, resulting in rapid deployment of access rules that differ greatly among cities. The speed of implementation of access rules may directly influence customer vehicle residual values and choice of next purchase. In an effort to support the Paris Accord, some countries are adopting yearly increases in CO2 taxes, where such a system is in place, and publishing dates by when internal combustion powered vehicles may no longer be registered, e.g., Norway in 2025 and the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in 2030.

Other National Requirements. Many countries, in an effort to address air quality and climate change concerns, are adopting previous versions of European or United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (“UN-ECE”) mobile source emission regulations. Some countries have adopted more advanced regulations based on the most recent version of European or U.S. regulations. For example, the China Stage VI light-duty vehicle emission standards, based on European Stage VI emission standards for light-duty vehicles, U.S. evaporative and refueling emissions standards, and CARB OBD II requirements, incorporate two levels of stringency for tailpipe emissions. Under the level one (VI(a)) standard, which is currently in place nationwide in China, the emissions limits are comparable to the EU Stage VI limits, except for carbon monoxide, which is 30% lower than the EU Stage VI limit. The more stringent level two (VI(b)) standard’s emissions limits are approximately 30-50% lower than the EU Stage VI limits, depending on the pollutant. While level two (VI(b)) is not slated for nationwide implementation until July 2023, the government has encouraged the more economically developed cities and provinces to pull ahead implementation. For example, Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Hebei province, and Guangdong province have all begun implementing level two (VI(b)). Both China Stage VII light-duty vehicle and heavy duty vehicle emission regulations are currently under pre-study, and the Ministry of Ecology and Environment has advised that the Stage VII regulations will have more stringent limits on pollutant emissions and will establish limits for greenhouse gas (primarily CO2) tailpipe emissions. In South America, most countries are evolving to implement more stringent requirements accepting Europe and U.S. regulations, except Brazil, which has a unique local process called PROCONVE based on U.S. regulations for light-duty vehicles and European regulations for heavy-duty vehicles.


Canadian criteria emissions regulations are largely aligned with U.S. requirements; however, the existing ZEV regulations in Quebec and those published in British Columbia in July 2020 are more stringent than those in place in California. Both British Columbia and Quebec have proposed draft amendments to their regulations to increase requirements starting in 2025 and 2026, respectively. The federal government has published draft light-duty ZEV sales requirements through an amendment to the Passenger Automobile and Light Truck Greenhouse Gas Emission Regulations and has also published its intent to develop ZEV sales requirements for heavy-duty vehicles. Other provinces have signaled their interest in light-duty ZEV sales regulations but are awaiting the finalization of the federal ZEV regulations.

Elsewhere, there is a mix of regulations and processes based on U.S. and EU standards. Not all countries have adopted appropriate fuel quality standards to accompany the stringent emission standards adopted. This could lead to compliance problems, particularly if OBD or in-use surveillance requirements are implemented.

Global Developments. In recent years, EPA and CARB have increased their focus on the use of “defeat devices.” Defeat devices are elements of design (typically embedded in software) that improperly cause the emission control system to function less effectively during normal on-road driving than during an official laboratory emissions test, without justification. They are prohibited by law in many jurisdictions, and we do not use defeat devices in our vehicles.

Regulators around the world continue to scrutinize automakers’ emission testing, which has led to a number of defeat device settlements by various manufacturers. EPA is carrying out additional non-standard tests as part of its vehicle certification program. CARB has also been conducting extensive non-standard emission tests, which in some cases have resulted in certification delays for diesel vehicles. In the past, several European countries have conducted non-standard emission tests and published the results, and, in some cases, this supplemental testing has triggered investigations of manufacturers for possible defeat devices. Testing is expected to continue on an ongoing basis. In addition, plaintiffs’ attorneys are pursuing consumer class action lawsuits based on alleged excessive emissions from cars and trucks, which could, in turn, prompt further investigations by regulators.

Vehicle Fuel Economy and Greenhouse Gas Standards

U.S. Requirements - Light-Duty Vehicles. Federal law requires that light-duty vehicles meet minimum corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) standards set by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”). Manufacturers are subject to substantial civil penalties if they fail to meet the CAFE standard in any model year, after taking into account all available credits for the preceding five model years and expected credits for the three succeeding model years. The law requires NHTSA to promulgate and enforce separate CAFE standards applicable to each manufacturer’s fleet of domestic passenger cars, imported passenger cars, and light-duty trucks.

EPA also regulates vehicle greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions under the Clean Air Act. Because the vast majority of GHGs emitted by a vehicle are the result of fuel combustion, GHG emission standards are similar to fuel economy standards. Thus, NHTSA and EPA coordinate with each other on their fuel economy and GHG standards, respectively, to avoid potential inconsistencies.

Beginning with the 2012 model year, EPA and NHTSA jointly promulgated harmonized GHG and fuel economy regulations under what came to be known as the “One National Program” (“ONP”) framework. California, which had promulgated its own state-specific set of GHG regulations, agreed that compliance with the federal program would satisfy compliance with its own GHG requirements, thereby avoiding a patchwork of potentially conflicting federal and state GHG standards. ONP has required manufacturers to achieve increasingly stringent year-over-year standards.

ONP was envisioned to continue at least through the 2025 model year. In 2020, EPA introduced significantly less stringent fuel economy and GHG standards applicable to model years 2021-2026. The federal government also revoked California’s authority to set and enforce its own vehicle GHG standards, as well as the authority of other states that opted in to California’s standards. California continued to assert its authority to regulate vehicle GHGs, challenged in court the federal government’s preemption actions, withdrew from ONP, and planned to return to enforcing its own state-specific GHG standards.
