TEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Key Trends and Economic Factors Affecting Ford and the Automotive Industry

COVID-19 and Supplier Disruptions. The impact of COVID-19, including changes in consumer behavior, pandemic fears and market downturns, and restrictions on business and individual activities, has created significant volatility in the global economy. Outbreaks in certain regions continue to cause intermittent COVID-19-related disruptions in our supply chain and local manufacturing operations. We also continue to face supplier disruptions due to labor shortages and other production issues, in addition to the continuing semiconductor shortage. Our inconsistent production schedule has been disruptive to our suppliers’ operations, which, in turn, has led to higher costs and production shortfalls. Further, actions taken by Russia in Ukraine have impacted and could further impact our suppliers, particularly our lower tier suppliers, as well as our operations in Europe. For additional information on the impact of supplier disruptions, see the Outlook section on page 73.

Currency Exchange Rate Volatility. After aggressively easing monetary policy in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve, and other central banks around the world, in 2022 began to withdraw monetary stimulus by raising interest rates. Periods of monetary policy tightening are often associated with heightened financial market and currency volatility, especially for those markets that are outliers in terms of their economic or monetary policy backdrop. This is notable for many emerging markets, which may also face increased exposure to commodity prices and political instability, contributing to unpredictable movements in the value of their exchange rates. In addition to direct impacts on the financial flows of global automotive companies, currency movements can also impact pricing of vehicles exported to overseas markets. In most markets, exchange rates are market-determined, and all are impacted by many different macroeconomic and policy factors, and thus likely to remain volatile. However, in some markets, exchange rates are heavily influenced or controlled by governments.

Pricing Pressure. Over the last year, prices of both new and used vehicles have increased substantially due to strong demand, supply shortages, and inflationary costs. We have already observed some moderation in the rate of price increases as auto production slowly recovers from the semiconductor shortage, but it is unclear whether prices will decline fully to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels. Over the long term, intense competition and excess capacity are likely to put downward pressure on inflation-adjusted prices for similarly-contented vehicles and contribute to a challenging pricing environment for the automotive industry in most major markets.

Commodity and Energy Prices. Prices for commodities remain volatile. In some cases, spot prices for various commodities have recently diverged somewhat, as anticipated weakening in global industrial activity mitigates price increases for base metals such as steel and aluminum, while precious metals (e.g., palladium), and raw materials that are used in batteries for electric vehicles (e.g., lithium, cobalt, nickel, graphite, and manganese, among other materials, for batteries) remain high. The net impact on us and our suppliers has been higher material costs overall. To help ensure supply of raw materials for critical components (e.g., batteries), we, like others in the industry, have entered into multi-year sourcing agreements and may enter into additional agreements. Similar dynamics are impacting energy markets, with Europe particularly exposed to the risk of both higher prices and constraints on supply of natural gas due to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine. Such shortages may impact facilities operated by us or our suppliers, which could have an impact on us in Europe and other regions. In the long term, the outcome of de-carbonization and electrification of the vehicle fleet may depress oil demand, but the global energy transition will also contribute to ongoing volatility of oil and other energy prices. For additional information on commodity costs, see the Outlook section on page 73.

Vehicle Profitability. Our financial results depend on the profitability of the vehicles we sell, which may vary significantly by vehicle line. In general, larger vehicles tend to command higher prices and be more profitable than smaller vehicles, both across and within vehicle segments. For example, in North America, our larger, more profitable vehicles had an average contribution margin that was 120% of our total average contribution margin across all vehicles, whereas our smaller vehicles had significantly lower contribution margins. In addition, government regulations aimed at reducing emissions and increasing fuel efficiency (e.g., ZEV mandates and low emission zones), and other factors that accelerate the transition to electrified vehicles, may increase the cost of vehicles by more than the perceived benefit to consumers and dampen margins.


35
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Trade Policy. To the extent governments in various regions implement or intensify barriers to imports, such as erecting tariff or non-tariff barriers or manipulating their currency, and provide advantages to local exporters selling into the global marketplace, there can be a significant negative impact on manufacturers based in other markets. While we believe the long-term trend will support the growth of free trade, we will continue to monitor and address developing issues.

Inflation and Interest Rates. We continue to see near-term impacts on our business due to inflation, including ongoing global price pressures in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, driving up energy prices, freight premiums, and other operating costs above normal rates. Although headline inflation in the United States and Europe appears to have peaked, as gasoline and natural gas prices recede from the latest spike, core inflation (excluding food and energy prices) remains elevated and is a source of continued cost pressure on businesses and households. Interest rates have increased significantly as central banks in developed countries attempt to subdue inflation while government deficits and debt remain at high levels in many global markets. Accordingly, the eventual implications of higher government deficits and debt, tighter monetary policy, and potentially higher long-term interest rates may drive a higher cost of capital for the business. At Ford Credit, rising interest rates may impact its ability to source funding and offer financing at competitive rates, which could reduce its financing margin.

Revenue

Our Automotive segment revenue is generated primarily by sales of vehicles, parts, and accessories. Revenue is recorded when control is transferred to our customers (generally, our dealers and distributors). For the majority of sales, this occurs when products are shipped from our manufacturing facilities. However, we defer a portion of the consideration received when there is a separate future or stand-ready performance obligation, such as extended service contracts or ongoing vehicle connectivity. Revenue related to extended service contracts is recognized over the term of the agreement in proportion to the costs we expect to incur in satisfying the contract obligations; revenue related to other future or stand-ready performance obligations is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the period in which services are expected to be performed. Vehicles sold to daily rental car companies with an obligation to repurchase for a guaranteed amount, exercisable at the option of the customer, are accounted for as operating leases, with lease revenue recognized over the term of the lease. Proceeds from the sale of vehicles at auction are recognized in revenue upon transfer of control of the vehicle to the buyer.

Most of the vehicles sold by us to our dealers and distributors are financed at wholesale by Ford Credit. Upon Ford Credit originating the wholesale receivable related to a dealer’s purchase of a vehicle, Ford Credit pays cash to the relevant Automotive legal entity in payment of the dealer’s obligation for the purchase price of the vehicle. The dealer then pays the wholesale finance receivable to Ford Credit when it sells the vehicle to a retail customer.

Our Ford Credit segment revenue is generated primarily from interest on finance receivables and revenue from operating leases. Revenue from interest on finance receivables is recognized over the term of the receivable using the interest method and includes the amortization of certain deferred origination costs. Revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

Transactions between our Automotive and Ford Credit segments occur in the ordinary course of business. For example, we offer special retail financing and lease incentives to dealers’ customers who choose to finance or lease our vehicles from Ford Credit. The cost for these incentives is included in our estimate of variable consideration at the date the related vehicle sales to our dealers are recorded. In order to compensate Ford Credit for the lower interest or lease payments offered to the retail customer, we pay the discounted value of the incentive directly to Ford Credit when it originates the retail finance or lease contract with the dealer’s customer. Ford Credit recognizes the incentive amount over the life of retail finance contracts as an element of financing revenue and over the life of lease contracts as a reduction to depreciation. See Note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for a more detailed discussion of transactions between our Automotive and Ford Credit segments.


36
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued)
Costs and Expenses

Our income statement classifies our Company excluding Ford Credit total costs and expenses into two categories: (i) cost of sales, and (ii) selling, administrative, and other expenses. We include within cost of sales those costs related to the development, production, and distribution of our vehicles, parts, accessories, and services. Specifically, we include in cost of sales each of the following: material costs (including commodity costs); freight costs; warranty, including product recall costs; labor and other costs related to the development and production of our vehicles and connectivity, parts, accessories, and services; depreciation and amortization; and other associated costs. We include within selling, administrative, and other expenses labor and other costs not directly related to the development and production of our vehicles, parts, accessories, and services, including such expenses as advertising and sales promotion costs.

Certain of our costs, such as material costs, generally vary directly with changes in volume and mix of production. In our industry, production volume often varies significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Quarterly production volumes experience seasonal shifts throughout the year (including peak retail sales seasons and the impact on production of model changeover and new product launches). Annual production volumes are heavily impacted by external economic factors, including the pace of economic growth and factors such as the availability of consumer credit and cost of fuel.

As a result, we analyze the profit impact of certain cost changes holding constant present-year volume and mix and currency exchange, in order to evaluate our cost trends absent the impact of varying production and currency exchange levels. We analyze these cost changes in the following categories:

•Contribution Costs – these costs typically vary with production volume. These costs include material (including commodity), warranty, and freight and duty costs.

•Structural Costs – these costs typically do not have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. These costs include manufacturing; vehicle and software engineering; spending-related; advertising and sales promotion; administrative, information technology, and selling; and pension and OPEB costs.

While contribution costs generally vary directly in proportion to production volume, elements within our structural costs category are impacted to differing degrees by changes in production volume. We also have varying degrees of discretion when it comes to controlling the different elements within our structural costs. For example, depreciation and amortization expense largely is associated with prior capital spending decisions. On the other hand, while labor costs do not vary directly with production volume, manufacturing labor costs may be impacted by changes in volume, for example when we increase overtime, add a production shift, or add personnel to support volume increases. Other structural costs, such as advertising or engineering costs, do not necessarily have a directly proportionate relationship to production volume. Our structural costs generally are within our discretion, although to varying degrees, and can be adjusted over time in response to external factors.

We consider certain structural costs to be a direct investment in future growth and revenue. For example, structural costs are necessary to grow our business and improve profitability, invest in new products and technologies, respond to increasing industry sales volume, and grow our market share.

Cost of sales and Selling, administrative, and other expenses for full year 2022 were $145.3 billion. Our Automotive segment’s material and commodity costs make up the largest portion of these costs and expenses, followed by structural costs. Although material costs are our largest absolute cost, our margins can be affected significantly by changes in any category of costs.
37
